1. what is devops and why need to use that?
==> DevOps means“development” and “operations” is the combination of practices and tools.
==> It is designed to increase an organization's ability to deliver applications and services faster 
        than traditional software development processes.

2. what are the types of sdlc we have?
     Waterfall Model.
     Agile Model.
     Spiral Model.
     V-Shaped Model.
      Iterative Model.
      Big Bang Model.

3. what is the main difference between agile  and waterfall methodology?
 ==> Agile and Waterfall are two well-known project management methodologies. 
 ==> Both of them are popular in software development.
 ==> The main difference is that 
           Waterfall is a linear system of working that requires the team to complete each project 
            Agile encourages the team to work simultaneously on different phases of the project.
    
4. what is source code management and its uses?
    Source code management (SCM) is used to track modifications to a source code repository. 

5. what are the branching strategies in git?
    Build your strategy from these three concepts: 
           Use feature branches for all new features and bug fixes.
           Merge feature branches into the main branch using pull requests. 
            Keep a high quality, up-to-date main branch
    Branching strategy:
         Develop branch
         Bugfix branch
         Release branch
         Feature branch

6. what are the repositories in git?
    Online repo or central repo or remote repo
     Local repository

7. what is the pull request?
     Pull requests let you tell others about changes you've pushed to a branch in a repository on GitHub.
   
8. what is ssh and http and operations in git?
     SSH and HTTPS are the two ways to clone a repository from GitHub.
     SSH or Secure Shell is a network communication protocol that enables two servers to communicate
       It is encryption format, we can configure password less authentication between 2 Servers.
          Port no:22  ==> To Create SSH-Key = ssh -Keygen
     HTTP or hypertext transfer protocol, which is the protocol used to transfer hypertext such as web pages and share data.

9. What is Git?
    Git is a distributed version control system used for track modifications in scm.
     It is generally used for source code management in software development.

10. what is git merge command?
     Merging is Git's way of putting a forked history back together again.
